+++
date = '2026-04-30T21:47:25-04:00'
draft = true
title = 'Dancer'
tags = ['Short Stories']
summary = 'A short story about being unable to fall asleep'
+++

Lately, George had been having trouble sleeping. He had taken to getting out of bed in the middle of the night and walking around to tire himself. George always took great care to not wake his wife, Mary. He would wait for her to be immersed in the furthest depths of sleep before slowly slipping out of bed, planting a delicate kiss on her forehead, and leaving the room to traipse about the house in the dark. It was on such a late night walk, in the height of the witching hour, that he noticed movement in the corner of his eye, outside of his kitchen window. He drew closer, and began to make out a human-like figure moving in the lit window of his neighbor’s house. 

It appeared to be the silhouette of a person moving rhythmically, in tempo with some unheard melody. The dancer was lanky but otherwise featureless. He wondered why his neighbor was up at this hour, and what possessed him to do this in the dead of night. Perhaps he too found no solace in his bed, and this was a bizarre exercise for inciting fatigue. Upon further inspection, however, the figure’s frame did not match that of his neighbor. George hadn’t seen any visitors come through that day, either. He strained to identify a pattern in the choreography. Parts of it were reminiscent of a marionette doll being hoisted and then suddenly released, with the head and arms rising and then abruptly falling down, limp. The dancer would at times introduce a new motion; it raised one hand up to its head, seemingly caressing one side of its face before sweeping the hand down its body. It repeated this on each side. At other times, the dancer would sharply fall forward, and would slowly rise, visibly trembling and nodding its head. Various bodily tremors and hand gestures were interspersed as well. George stood in place, transfixed by the dancer’s movements. He noticed a lump developing in his throat, and felt a creeping anxiety that the strange figure would stop dancing and notice him staring through the window.

As George's heart began to drum faster, he noticed the dancer's pace quicken as well. This new tempo made the dance even more uncanny, which disconcerted him further. Eventually, the silhouette danced with an almost violent intensity, in time with the pounding in George's chest. Though he had the extreme desire to retreat to his room, where his wife still slept soundly, George found himself unable to move his legs, turn his head, or even close his eyes. He continued watching for another minute. Without warning, the dancer stood straight and perfectly still. The perfect darkness of its silhouette was suddenly broken by two bright, white eyes in its head. Though George was many yards away, he could somehow make out the fine details of the eyes, from the stark whites to the dark, constricted pupils. He could tell that the figure’s eyes were trained directly on him, now watching him obsessively as he had watched it before.

Startled, George gasped and took a step back, finally able to move. As he tried to collect his senses, he noticed that he was having difficulty closing his mouth. His jaw was hinged open from his previous surprise and sharp intake of air. Despite his best efforts, he could not make it close. In his efforts to move his jaw around and regain full muscular control, he found himself opening his mouth wider. As his confusion descended into alarm, and alarm into panic, he involuntarily began opening his mouth even wider while trying to close it, until he was completely agape. He began to feel a sharp pain in his lower jaw, which was so far down that it pressed against his throat, making it difficult to breathe. And still he could not swing it shut, and still the dancer’s eyes were fixed squarely on him.

George was now frantic, in the throes of hysteria. He tried crying out for his wife. In his current state he could only muster grunts and unintelligible bellows, too muffled for her to hear. In the midst of his growing frenzy, he tripped and tumbled backward. He lay on the kitchen floor, laboriously hyperventilating, weeping and cradling his face. He was alone except for the dark figure observing him from across the yard. He lay like this for a few moments, hidden in the darkness from all eyes except those of the dancer. He stared back at his only companion, and suddenly realized that the dancer appeared to be growing larger – no, it was getting closer. Unbound by walls and by the forces of the Earth, the dark thing slowly approached George, gliding through space. Now focused on the figure’s movement, he felt panic slowly leave him. His heart was no longer pounding in his chest – no, in fact it was quite still, and despite his circumstances he felt the growing urge to fall asleep. The figure had now passed through the window of the kitchen and was almost hovering above him. _Best to sleep here_, George thought. _I think my jaw should fix itself if I get some rest. Mary will be alarmed to see me this way in the morning but I’ll apologize and we’ll hold each other and then we’ll make coffee and talk about what happened. But now I need to sleep._ The figure now completely enveloped George. His eyes closed, but in his eyelids he could still see the bright eyes of the dancer. The eyes moved closer and closer and for an instant the whites completely filled the field of his vision. Finally, George knew peace.